# Exercise 8

## Intro to GLib

One of the goals of this exercise is for you to practice orienting
yourself to a new library by reading documentation and examples.  By
"orienting" I mean the process of exploring and building a mental map
of the landscape.  And by "landscape" I mean the set of features
provided by the library, and the idioms the library provides.  And by
"idioms" I mean the patterns, style, and practices associated with the
library.

1) Skim the [documentation of
GLib](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/index.html) and [the
Wikipedia page on GLib](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLib), targeting
answers to these questions:

*  Where is GLib from and why does it exist?  Who uses it, and for
what?  Would it have been better if they had given it a name less
likely to be confused with `glibc`?

GLib was originally 5 separate libraries that were merged into one. They were originally part of the GTK+ project and were separated from it so that developers who wanted to use the non GUI parts of the project wouldn't have to deal with all of the overhead and have a separate library that was easier for them to use. This library is used for a variety of reasons such as accessbility features, games, utilities and more. It would have probably been better if it were named something else. Glibc provides core C functionality and Glib provides object oriented capabilities. These are both powerful C tools and having libraries with similar names probably makes it hard to remember which is which and which ones are included.

*  What are the most important pros and cons of using GLib, as opposed
to another library, or just using core C features?

GLib provides a lot of low level datastructures that can enhance the C experience. While using core C features would probably work as well, it would take more effort and time. There is a library that implements a lot of features, so might as well use it.

*  What do you have to do to compile and run a "Hello GLib" example?

gcc -Wall -o ex_compile ex_compile.c $(pkg-config --cflags --libs glib-2.0)
./ex_compile

2) Install Glib (detail to follow)

3) Read [this Glib
tutorial](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/tutorials/l-glib/)
Their first example, `ex_compile.c`, is in this directory.
Following their instructions, compile it on the command line and run it.

4) Write a `Makefile` that compiles `ex_compile.c` cleanly.

5) Write a program called `word_count.c` that reads a text file,
splits lines into words, and counts the frequency of each word.  You
can download interesting text files from Project Gutenberg.

*  How to handle punctuation:  

Basic version: Ignore it.  Just treat everything between whitespace as
a "word."

Optional: Strip punctuation so that at least most of your words are words.

* How to display results:

Basic: Print the list of unique words and their frequencies in any order.

Optional: Sort the words and print them in order of frequency.

You should use Glib types, functions and data structures wherever
possible (and appropriate).  You should check the return values of all
function calls and handle errors appropriately.  You can work on
deallocating your data structures if you want.  You will have the
option of working on this part in a future exercise.

6) Modify the `Makefile` to compile `word_count.c`.

7) Check in `word_count.c` and `Makefile`.
